ABSTRACT :- 
With the advent of the era of big data in the world and the commercial value of face recognition technology, the prospects for face recognition technology are very bright and have great market demand. This article aims to design a face recognition attendance system based on real-time video processing.  This article mainly sets four directions to consider the problems: the accuracy rate of the face recognition system in the actual check-in, the stability of the face recognition attendance system with real-time video processing, the truancy rate of the face recognition attendance system with real-time video processing and the interface settings of the face recognition attendance system using real-time video processing. By analyzing the situation of these problems, the concept  of attendance system based  on face recognition technology  is proposed, and the research on face recognition attendance system based on real-time video processing is carried out. Experimental data shows that the accuracy rate of the video face recognition system is up to 82%. Compared with the traditional check-in method, the face recognition attendance system can be reduced by about 60%. The rate of skipping classes has greatly reduced the phenomenon of students leaving early and skipping classes. The face recognition time and attendance system with real-time video processing through the above experimental certification can quickly complete the tasks of students in the time and attendance check-in system, get rid of the complex naming phenomenon, greatly improve the efficiency of class, and play an important role in guiding the development of the time and attendance system.

INTRODUCTION :- 
In this era of Internet explosion, computer technology has involved many areas of people’s lives and work. The occasions where people come into contact with computers are gradually expanding. The frequency with which people use computing is also increasing. One of the most challenging projects in the field has a broad application prospect because of its huge sense of innovation. As an important identity label for people to distinguish different individuals, face recognition technology has gradually entered people’s lives. Face recognition is the combination of artificial intelligence and computer. Because of its huge challenging innovation and broad application prospects, it has become the most challenging topic in this field.
Attendance plays an important role in any organization whether it be educational institutions or companies. So it is very important to keep record of the attendance. The problem arises when one has to manually take the attendance which is not only time consuming but exhausting as well. So an automatic attendance system can solve such problem. Basically, there are two kinds of system: 1) Manual Attendance System (MAS) 2) Automated Attendance System (AAS) One of AAS system is biometric technique using finger prints, though it is automatic and a step ahead of traditional method it fails to meet the time and hygiene constraint. But using the biometric features of face solves such problem.[1]Our projects emphasizes on the features of the face like ears, nose etc. We used a method invented in 2005 called Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) for face detection. For identifying the name of person simple linear SVM Classifier is used. All we need to do is train a classifier that can take in the measurements from a new test image and tells which known person is the closest match. The result is the name of person which is used to mark attendance.

ABOUT THE PROJECT :- 
Attendance is prime important for both the teacher and student of an educational organization. So it is very important to keep record of the attendance. The problem arises when we think about the traditional process of taking attendance in class room.
Calling name or roll number of the student for attendance is not only a problem of time consumption but also it needs energy. So an automatic attendance system can solve all above problems. There are some automatic attendances making system which are currently used by much institution. One of such system is biometric technique and RFID system. Although it is automatic and a step ahead of traditional method it fails to meet the time constraint. The student has to wait in queue for giving attendance, which is time taking.

OBJECTIVE :- 
1.To ensures accurate and reliable attendance recording without manual intervention.
2.Students don’t have to wait in queue for giving attendance, which is time consuming.
3.Ease the administrative burden associated with traditional attendance methods.
4.There will be no chance of fraudulent attendance marking.
5.To provide real time monitoring of attendance data. This allows for immediate access to attendance records.
6.To implement a system during exam sessions or in other teaching activities where attendance is highly essential.
7.To eliminate classical student identification such as calling name of the student, or checking respective identification cards of the student, which can not only interfere with the ongoing teaching process, but also can be stressful for students during examination sessions.
8.Design an intuitive and user friendly interface for both administrative and end users to interact with the system easily.

CONCLUSION :- 
In this approach, a face recognition based automated attendance system is thoroughly described. The proposed approach provides a method to identify the individuals by comparing their input image obtained from image in folder. From this model we can recognize the faces of students and can mark their attendance automatically in real time without human intervention. The feasibility of the model can be increased if a cloud can be hired to store details.
This system aims to build an effective class attendance system using face recognition techniques. The proposed system will be able to mark the attendance via face Id. It will detect faces via webcam and then recognize the faces. After recognition, it will mark the attendance of the recognized student and update the attendance record.
Before the development of this project. There are many loopholes in the process of taking attendance using the old method which caused many troubles to most of the institutions. Therefore, the facial recognition feature embedded in the attendance monitoring system can not only ensure attendance to be taken accurately and also eliminated the flaws in the previous system. By using technology to conquer the defects cannot merely save resources but also reduces human intervention in the whole process by handling all the complicated task to the machine. The only cost to this solution is to have sufficient space in to store all the faces into the database storage. Fortunately, there is such existence of micro SD that can compensate with the volume of the data. In this project, the face database is successfully built. Apart from that, the face recognizing system is also working well. At the end, the system not only resolve troubles that exist in the old model but also provide convenience to the user to access the information collected by mailing the attendance sheet to the respected faculty.
